---
wts:
    title: '01 - Create a User and Group in the portal (10 min)'   
    module: 'Module 01 - Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)'
---

# 01 - Add and delete users using Azure Active Directory
Add new users or delete existing users from your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) organization. To add or delete users you must be a User administrator or Global administrator.

# Task 1: Add a new user
You can create a new user using the Azure Active Directory portal.
To add a new user, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the **Azure portal** in the User Administrator role for the organization.

2. Search for and select **Azure Active Directory** from any page.

3. Select **Users**, and then select **New user**.

4. On the User page, enter information for this user,
4.1 **Name**. Required. The first and last name of the new user. For example, Mary Parker.
4.2 **User name**. Required. The user name of the new user. 
4.3 Copy the autogenerated password provided in the Password box. You'll need to give this password to the user to sign in for the first time.
4.4 **Groups**. Optionally, you can add the user to one or more existing groups. You can also add the user to groups at a later time.
4.5 **Job info**: You can add more information about the user here, or do it later.

5. Select **Create**.

The user is created and added to your Azure AD organization.

# Task 2: Create a basic group and add members using Azure Active Directory
You can create a basic group using the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) portal. For the purposes of this article, a basic group is added to a single resource by the resource owner (administrator) and includes specific members (employees) that need to access that resource. For more complex scenarios, including dynamic memberships and rule creation, see the Azure [Active Directory user management documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/)

## Group and membership types
There are several group and membership types. The following information explains each group and membership type and why they are used, to help you decide which options to use when you create a group.

## Group types:
**Security**. Used to manage member and computer access to shared resources for a group of users. For example, you can create a security group for a specific security policy. By doing it this way, you can give a set of permissions to all the members at once, instead of having to add permissions to each member individually. A security group can have users, devices, groups and service principals as its members and users and service principals as its owners. For more info about managing access to resources, see [Manage access to resources with Azure Active Directory groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-manage-groups)

**Microsoft 365**. Provides collaboration opportunities by giving members access to a shared mailbox, calendar, files, SharePoint site, and more. This option also lets you give people outside of your organization access to the group. A Microsoft 365 group can have only users as its members. Both users and service principals can be owners of a Microsoft 365 group. For more info about Microsoft 365 Groups, see [Learn about Microsoft 365 Groups](https://support.office.com/article/learn-about-office-365-groups-b565caa1-5c40-40ef-9915-60fdb2d97fa2)

## Membership types
**Assigned**. Lets you add specific users to be members of this group and to have unique permissions. For the purposes of this article, we're using this option.

**Dynamic user**. Lets you use dynamic membership rules to automatically add and remove members. If a member's attributes change, the system looks at your dynamic group rules for the directory to see if the member meets the rule requirements (is added) or no longer meets the rules requirements (is removed).

**Dynamic device**. Lets you use dynamic group rules to automatically add and remove devices. If a device's attributes change, the system looks at your dynamic group rules for the directory to see if the device meets the rule requirements (is added) or no longer meets the rules requirements (is removed).

## Create a basic group and add members
You can create a basic group and add your members at the same time. To create a basic group and add members use the following procedure:

1. Sign in to the **Azure portal** using a Global administrator account for the directory.

2. Search for and select **Azure Active Directory**.

3. On the Active Directory page, select **Groups** and then select **New group**.

4. The New Group pane will appear and you must fill out the required information.

5. Select a pre-defined Group type **Security**.

6. Create and add a Group name. Choose a name that you'll remember and that makes sense for the group. A check will be performed to determine if the name is already in use by another group. If the name is already in use, to avoid duplicate naming, you'll be asked to change the name of your group.

7. **Group description**. Add an optional description to your group.

8. Select a pre-defined Membership type **Assigned** (required).

9. Select **Create**. Your group is created and ready for you to add members.

10. Select the Members area from the Group page, and then begin searching for the members to add to your group from the Select members page.

11. When you're done adding members, choose Select.

12. The Group Overview page updates to show the number of members who are now added to the group.

**Note**: In Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), you can use rules to determine group membership based on user or device properties. When a group membership rule is applied, user and device attributes are evaluated for matches with the membership rule. When an attribute changes for a user or device, all dynamic group rules in the organization are processed for membership changes. Users and devices are added or removed if they meet the conditions for a group. Security groups can be used for either devices or users, but Microsoft 365 Groups can be only user groups. Using Dynamic groups requires Azure AD premium P1 license or Intune for Education license. See [Dynamic membership rules](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/groups-create-rule) for groups for more details.

